programming log assignment 4 - colby rush, cs 324

Started out the assignment simply taking code Assign2 and building on it. Realizing you handed a lot of the base code to us in the handouts was nice.. It was a matter of converting all of window/viewport programs from earlier to 3D, and add a view tiny things (get,reset) to make it less tedious to get and set certain values. Did the same for the matrix class since those utilities seemed to be really useful.

Oh man was that an optimistic previous paragraph. That "matter of converting" is coming along slowly"

I'm not a big fan of how I handled DefineElementaryTransform, with the huge list of if and putting values in by hand, but it seems like the best way to handle a bunch of possible of different transform matricies. I just have to make sure not to send the wrong macro. Also the same deal with my window class. It's pretty ugly, but it works.

Broke up my program into different classes/files as it started to get bigger and bigger. Makes everything a little easier to keep track of, as well as keeping the paintComponent and initGraphics apart from all the primitive backends. Just have to keep track of what is where.

Once I got all the primitives built and my basic functions figured out and debugged, it was actually kind of hard to figure out where to go from there, since I'd been so caught up in the mechanics instead of the creating. Just had to sort of dive into it and hope for the best.

Success. I have made a black square in the top left of my screen. I am a god. I am also an idiot because it doesn't do anything for me. Time to bug-test.

I just learned about the joys of [this.(whatever)]. For some reason it feels like everything is going to be easier now. Also did a major overhaul of most of functions and classes since it makes things much easier and prettier.

Measured the hallway today. Guesstimated it's about 12 feet tall, 10 feet wide, and 48 feet long. Luckily nobody was in the hall while I was spinning in circles like an idiot, using my armspan of 6 feet to measure. 

Found a bug in my matrix multiplication that would just keep returning 0 matricies. Lovely.

Welp. All of my shapes look like I closed my eyes while putting a pencil on paper. I'm really struggling trying to piece together all the vectors, transforms, and camera transforms to make an actual shape. I can make a mean square, and I can sort of wander around it using the camera, but throw in more than 4 vertices in a single program and I'm out of luck. All the vertices seem to either overlap or go in completely the different direction that I intended

I've been trying to graph the z equation in hopes of accomplishing at least something. Every time I try to run it to see if anything is happening, my computer's fan kicks in really loud and my computer slows down a bit. I have to assume that's bad. Maybe time to try out a different part, except I think I'm already on the easiest part.

Looks like i'm just going to turn in my code since I can't get anything to work.